CALL FOR PAPERS

13th Texas Linguistics Society (TLS) Conference
June 23-24, 2012
University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX

TLS is a graduate-student run conference in linguistics organized by the Texas 
Linguistics Society and the Department of Linguistics at the University of 
Texas at Austin. This year's TLS is co-located with the North American Summer 
School of Logic, Language, and Information and associated workshops and 
symposia.

http://tls.ling.utexas.edu/

TLS 13 will be structured around two para-sessions: (1) formal semantics & 
pragmatics and (2) signed languages and meaning. While we strongly encourage 
submissions related to these themes we will also consider submissions on topics 
of general linguistic interest. We are additionally interested in overlapping 
research from related disciplines including anthropology, cognitive science, 
neuroscience, philosophy of language, and psychology.

--- Keynote Speakers ---

Nicholas Asher (IRIT, CNRS/Université Paul Sabatier)
Erin Wilkinson (University of Manitoba)

--- Invited Talks ---

Kathryn Davidson (University of Connecticut)
Jeroen Groenendijk (University of Amsterdam)
Richard Meier (University of Texas at Austin)
Josep Quer (ICREA, Universitat Pompeu Fabra)
Craige Roberts (The Ohio State University)

--- Submission Information ---

1 page abstracts (not including references) should be submitted in PDF or DOC 
format through EasyChair: https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=tls13 
Authors are encouraged to submit an extended abstract or short paper of no 
fewer than 6 pages and no more than 20 pages (both including references). These 
will be collected into an edited volume for publication.

--- Important Dates ---

* Abstract Submission Deadline: April 16, 2012
* Notification of Acceptance: May 7, 2012
* Draft Paper Submission Deadline: June 10, 2012
* Final Paper Submission Deadline: August 1, 2012

--- Organizers ---

Mark Amengual
Justin Cope
Joey Frazee
Leah Geer
Dan Garrette
Jane Grabowski
Laura Jensen

Contact Email: tls.conference@gmail.com

--- Co-located Events ---

* North American Summer School of Logic, Language, and Information (NASSLLI), 
June 18-22. NASSLLI is a one-week summer school aimed at formally-minded 
graduate students in Philosophy, Computer Science, Linguistics, Psychology, and 
related fields. http://nasslli2012.com/

* Reasoning and Interaction at NASSLLI (RAIN), June 23-24. The RAIN workshop is 
currently accepting submissions for presentations on topics related to 
reasoning and interaction among individuals and groups. 
http://nasslli2012.com/rain

* Turing Centenary Symposium, June 23. http://nasslli2012.com/turing

Registration fees will be waived for NASSLLI, RAIN and Turing participants.
